1. The asynchronous nature can be a problem for developers due to the loss of sequential executing of code. Unlike synchronous programming, lines of code are executed sequentially, so the program stops and can take time to execute the next line of code. Asynchronous does not wait when a program stops, and subsequent lines of code will execute either way, which can be troublesome as there is no longer an execution order that the program follows, and one must explicitly create this order which can be more tedious and complex. The loose typing in javascript allows flexibility among variables, but now becomes more error prone which can add frustration and less control/freedom to the programmer. And for the web platform it runs on, since javascript is interpreted differently accross different browsers, the code would need to be run on various platforms and tested before putting out the product.
2. Allowing javascript to be a loosely typed language gives the programmer flexibility which in turn allows one to minimize debugging efforts, have more freedom, control, and convenience, as well as be more efficient when coding. For this reason there is also no need for generics or interfaces since the compiler will implicitly do type conversions/coercions. The asychronous environment allows long running tasks to still be responsive to other things while that task runs, rather than stopping the program and waiting for the sequential execution to take place. 
3. JavaScript is an JIT interpreted language, meaning that the code does not need to be compiled into machine code and can be interpreted on the go, though while it does have a just in time compiler, it does not compile the same way as other compiler languages such as Java or C++. The drawback is that compiled languages ensure that the code is optimized during compilation. The benefit is that JIT compiled leverages both compiled and interpreted language to ensure the performance in a dynamic way (varies from engine to engine).
4. Having a good understanding of the basics of javascript before learning about frameworks is crutial for efficiency, since it can be easy to run into weird behavior with your code and without a solid understanding of javascript basics, it can be hard to come out of. The core concepts and principles are needed to learn how to use new libraries and frameworks, and those fundamentals are what last rather than framworks that come and go. The 80/20 rule he went over in class exemplifies how one should invest and focus 80% of the time learning the root concepts, and the other 20% can be exploring different tools. You have to learn to walk before you run!
5. I believe this lab teaches me the core principles of javascript, as well as the main differences among this language compared to what im more used to, like C++ or Java. It's interesting being able to be exposed to a new language that has loose typing and asychronous execution, so knowing and understanding these principles will allow me to build off of these concepts on my project, and really understand what it is that I am doing.